hi my name is Mark Peterson I'm coming
from Switzerland here in nowhere for a
couple of days fishing and tying so what
I'm going to show you now it's three
different pattern using CDC very simple
you will see it's easy so first of all
we will start by a caddis pattern for
that I will use a short hook which is a
tempo 100 size 14 and we will make a
very basic pattern using three CDC
feathers so first of all you start with
tying the thread in okay now I will
select one of those base CDC now another
one which is a blue done like this and
then we'll use another one which is the
darker one this one Col like dark brown
so the idea is very simple it's pretty
hard to use CDC feathers because the
stem is very conical and it can be very
weak at this point and very stick here
very strong at this point so what I do I
use the magic tool which allows us in
fact to use all the barbs and to get rid
of the stem so the first thing you have
to do is to take the CDC by the small
section here and with your two of the
fingers you put about 90 degrees from
the stand you repeat the same procedure
on the second feather and then on the
third feather like this now you put the
all the feather in the same position so
that is like this like this kind of
natural curve and now I use the table
clip which is the most appropriate to
the side of the feather this is a little
bit too small put it on the side this is
the
perfect table according to the length of
the feathers pull on both sides drop in
and as you see here both sides gets
together the only thing I have to do now
is to trim the excess here and here now
we transfer to the transparent clip like
this and as you see here the stems are
nicely line up that's mean that it will
be very easy to frame all the stem at
once like this and now we are ready to
tie in the material personally I do not
use the dubbing loop technique because I
prefer much better to split the thread
this is what I do now
so you flap the thread and then using
your needle you can split the thread
like this now you introduce the Akal
substitute that way and very important
first just do that to secure that
everything will stay together
now I can take 10 centimeters out of the
bobbin and spin the bobbin holder when
you've got enough twists you stop and as
the twists are from here to here now I
want to add them here I just do that if
I release they are gone so I rewind in
the bobbin holder like this and as you
see they stay stacked here so now let's
go you go a little bit backward create
the body like this and then to finish
the wing you use your two fingers to
invite the fibers to go backward that
way and now you have a nice silhouette
of a caddis pattern and this is really
quick use your finisher a couple of
wraps
then a second one it's always good you
can pull a little bit more on the second
one and so if it breaks you still have
something now trim you can now adjust
the length all the fibers together one
cut and if you are on I would say very
calm water I prefer much better to fly
being floating on the surface so do not
agitate to dream everything which is
under like this so very simple
you